---
title: A Product Managers Approach
---

When you ask people what a product manager does, you’ll sometimes end up more confused after asking. Quite simply, there is a lot on your plate, and you’re at the intersection of diverse areas within a company or team.
You may ask yourself:
Are you an engineer because you deploy code?
Are you a designer because you create specs?
Are you responsible for bizops because you deal with monetization and fundraising?
While there are PM’s out there within big and small companies that do all this and more, I want to tailor my attention to those who want to take their Product Management background and work on their own idea/startup. Over the past year, I’ve had the opportunity to work with a wonderful team and launch Fireflies Delivery. Fireflies is a task-sharing app that leverages one’s social network to get things done and become more productive. We’ve gone through two beta-testing phases at MIT and are planning to launch a new version at more college campuses in Fall 2015.

The learning curve was steep because you have to catch your own mistakes and adapt quickly. I’m a firm believer in learning by doing. Being agile is important, and that was what motivated our entire team to pursue something that started out as an idea for a competition into something much bigger. At larger companies, it’s comforting to work with a vision that has already been established. While conceptualizing new features for Fireflies Delivery, I didn’t know if what we were pursuing was right or wrong. The more time I spent on the problems that came up, the more I realized startups were basically like running science experiments. You start with assumptions gathered from observation, formulate a hypothesis, test it with a bunch of subjects, collect results, and go back to the drawing board. In conventional settings, PM’s are well accustomed to this process, but they have experienced higher-ups who can guide them in the right direction.
When working on your own idea, the training wheels come off. Not only do you define the vision and build the product but also ship and collect data. At a startup, you might well be a product manager without ever using that word to describe yourself. I think roles are flexible, but your vision has to be focused. One of the worst feelings is not knowing which direction to take after analyzing the metrics on features you just deployed. You have to remember your way back to the overall vision or you will be lost. I’d like to share and reflect on a few lessons I learned while working on Fireflies this past year. I hope that these will connect with fellow PM’s and aspiring PM’s who are encompassing on their own startup journey.
Before building, recognize that users shape the product

We sometimes stay so focused on what the product needs to do that we forget why we are building it in the first place. We build it for people to use, but for users to accept a product, we need to involve them in the process. It not rocket science, but time and time again we start building all these additional features by simply assuming that it would be great for users. How do we solve this problem? Simple. By asking. User testing was something we did after building a feature, but you can do it beforehand. Create mockups or wireframes, conduct UX interviews, and learn about the needs and behavior of the user. Rather than creating a product first and branding it as something that can solve a hypothetical problem, find the problem first. Build for the problem. This is how you’ll define what your startup is aiming to achieve.
Avoid feature creep at all costs. Learn to prioritize and optimize for dev time.

Drew Stephens, Flickr
We fell into this trap of thinking that we can solve one problem by building an extra feature that users would love. At other times, we thought that we needed to ship three additional features or not ship anything all. The challenge behind these two flaws was that we did not know how to prioritize. All great PM’s are masters of prioritizing. It really comes with experience and when you’re put on the spot. It’s not enough to know what you want to build, because you can’t build everything you want. Being open to making tradeoffs is the only way to survive in a fast moving environment. Adding additional features into a release cycle and delaying shipment is the best way for your ship to sink. Excelling at prioritizing goes back to drawing on what users want, what they need, and what you can deliver within given constraints. Always ask yourself why you’re building a feature. Build it when you are certain that your product would die without it.
Design for Simplicity and Seamlessness. Less is more.

This really drives home the point about feature creep. Focus on doing one thing really well rather than 5 things that end up being mediocre. I’m no design expert, but I follow one rule when specing: Users want something that takes as little effort as possible to use. They aren’t going give you a lot of time to convince them to use your product. Make it painless. If you’re really good, you’ll make it enjoyable. Great design is hard to point out. If you’re doing your job well, it should be so intuitive that the user doesn’t have to think about it. They’ll just experience it.
Collaborate, iterate, and pivot, but don’t forget your vision

kris krüg, Flickr
A PM can’t achieve any of the things I’ve mentioned above without a rockstar team. Collaboration is key because you have to convey the vision and become the enabler for everyone on the team to believe in the same vision. When everyone is on the same page and as passionate as you are, the rest becomes easier. It can be tiring to deploy frequently, but the engineers and designers will appreciate the value of iterating. The cycles can be repetitive, but pivoting and iterating is what drives your ship. As you make these turns, always remember your North Star. Remember the vision you set out with. That encompasses your team, product, and users.
Being the liaison between stakeholders within your company and the customers using your product forces you to optimize and execute. I believe that these skills make PM’s well equipped to take on the challenges of building a startup from ground up.
Relish the journey.
